# Meeting minutes 2019-02-19

## Attendees

* plh
* Sergey Kanzhelev
* Morgan McLean
* Thomas Watson
* Isobel Redelmeier
* Matthew Wear
* Bogdan Drutu
* Christoph Neumüller
* Alois Reitbauer
* Daniel Khan

## Issues and PRs

* [Issue trace-context/247](https://github.com/w3c/trace-context/issues/247)
  Sergey worked with plh. plh created a registry repository so that we can factor
  out other protocols. plh will go ahead.
  Issue was closed in favor of
  [Issue trace-context/254](https://github.com/w3c/trace-context/issues/254)
  to track progress.

* [Issue trace-context/252](https://github.com/w3c/trace-context/issues/252)
  Right now, it is undefined which rukes should be applied when a trace is restarted.
  E.g. it's unclear if `tracestate` should be reset/cleared or if it can be persisted.
  Sergej mentions that cloud vendors might want to preserve and propagate `tracestate`
  within their components but might want still want to propagate a private `traceparent`.
  On outbound requests `traceparent` would then be restored to the original values.
  Microsoft does it like that.
  If the spec doesn't required that `tracestate` needs to be cleared, Microsofts
  implementation would break the spec.
  Morgan adds that Google does it the same but that he doesn't have a strong
  opionion about breaking the spec as this would be just about how a vendor handles
  `trace-context` internally.
  Alois doesn't want to weaken the spec and is in favor of clear rules and that
  a vendor has to clear `tracestate` if `traceparent` was updated.
  Discussion was postponed as there are more discussions needed.
  Issue was labeled with `needs-more-discussion` to track this.

* [Issue trace-context/251](https://github.com/w3c/trace-context/issues/251)
  This issue covers two topics.

  1. It is about if forwarding services should parse headers and discard invalid
     ones.

  2. It is about how to deal with violation of header size limits that may be
     valid in one version but invalid in another of the header.
     It may make sense to define an upper bound for all upcoming versions to
     test against.

  It was agreed that (1) will be handled with the wording proposed and accepted
  on the issue while there will be a dedicated issue for (2).
  The new wording will be added as soon as the currently open large PR has been merged.

* [Issue trace-context/250](https://github.com/w3c/trace-context/issues/250)
  This case is still being discussed and was recorded in the spec in the ongoing
  edits in [this commit](https://github.com/w3c/trace-context/commit/9345a1dbf859118d9c7ae6f105614ee3e808646d)
  The issue was closed during the meeting but Daniel decided to reopen it as
  it's referenced on the spec.

* [PR trace-context/249](https://github.com/w3c/trace-context/pull/249)
  Connected to [Issue trace-context/247](https://github.com/w3c/trace-context/issues/247)
  and was approved and merged during the meeting.

* [PR trace-context/246](https://github.com/w3c/trace-context/pull/246)
  Discussion if the PR includes too much / is too big.
  It contains wording changes but also the processing model and in there a lot
  of comments marked with 'Pending Decision'. Sergej is opposed to merging that
  because the spec would be fine as it is. Daniel mentions that the language fixes
  should be in.
  We decided that others will review the PR and if it is too big, the language
  fixes will be incorporated into the current master, while removing the
  processing model for now. This needs to be decided until the next meeting.

* [PR trace-context/248](https://github.com/w3c/trace-context/pull/248)
  Ongoing discussion if the max size accepted for `tracestate` should be
  the responsibility of the vendor. Sergej points out that some vendors may
  just drop the header if it's too big for their usecases and as such it may make
  sense to leave the spec agnostic. This is a valid point for cloud vendors.
  For monitoring vendors, though this might mean that they just have to adjust to
  the size the most restrictive cloud vendor accepts because they can not tell
  which cloud vendors might participate in a trace.
  There was an agreement on defining 128 bytes as max length per `tracestate` entry
  and specifying that entries that exceed this limit should be removed first if
  the `tracestate` needs to be trimmed. This changes the spec slightly, because
  before it was specified that the trimming should start on the right most entry.
